RLN-V1-Update (#581)
vacp2p/rfc: content/docs/rfcs/32/README.md

---
slug: 32
title: 32/RLN-V1
name: Rate Limit Nullifier

> status: raw

Reviewer: ```suggestion
status: raw
category: Standards Track
```

> status: stable

Reviewer 2: I dont think this should be promoted to `stable`, this would happen only after a formal audit

`draft` is okay for now, imo cc: @kaiserd

Reviewer: Yes. Even the switch to draft should be done in a PR that only does this.
So, for now,  we should leave it at raw, and after this PR, add a dedicated PR: "Promote RFC 32 to draft".

```suggestion
status: raw
```

> editor: Blagoj Dimovski <blagoj.dimovski@yandex.com>

Reviewer 2: Was previously discussed that the editor should be someone actively updating the rfc(ref: https://rfc.vac.dev/spec/1/#editorial-control). Can we move Blagoj to the contributors section, and add @curryrasul as the main editor?

Reviewer: Yes, from the [COSS](https://rfc.vac.dev/spec/1/):

> A specification MUST have a single responsible editor, the only person who SHALL change the status of the specification through the lifecycle stages.

There is no specified way of moving ownership yet, I see two ways:

* simply change the editor (only in consent with the previous editor)
* archive the old state with the original editor, and "copy" the RFC with the new editor

Let's discuss this in Mondays's meeting.
(I have a few updated planned for COSS, which will also cover this.)

Reviewer: Update here: I opened a discussion regarding [COSS](https://rfc.vac.dev/spec/1/) updated in the Vac Discord *rfc* channel.
The suggestion for updating the editor of a raw RFC is:

> The editor in a raw RFC can be changed. There SHOULD be consensus with the previous editor.

which requires two phases.
Trusted MPC ceremony has not yet been performed for the RLN circuits.

## SSS security assumptions

> Shamir-Secret Sharing requires polynomial coefficients to be independent of each other; at the same time `a_1` depends on `a_0` through the Poseidon hashing. Due to Poseidon design, it's possible to [attack](https://github.com/Rate-Limiting-Nullifier/rln-circuits/pull/7#issuecomment-1416085627) the protocol. It was decided not to change the circuits design, cause at the moment the attack is infeasible, but it must be taken into account by RLN users that current version provides ~160-bit security and not 254. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Shamir-Secret Sharing requires polynomial coefficients to be independent of each other.
However, `a_1` depends on `a_0` through the Poseidon hash algorithm. 
Due to Poseidon's design, it's possible to [attack](https://github.com/Rate-Limiting-Nullifier/rln-circuits/pull/7#issuecomment-1416085627) the protocol. 
It was decided not to change the circuits design, since at the moment the attack is infeasible.
Therefore, implementers must be aware that the current version provides approximately 160-bit security and not 254. 
```

which requires two phases.
Trusted MPC ceremony has not yet been performed for the RLN circuits.

## SSS security assumptions

Shamir-Secret Sharing requires polynomial coefficients to be independent of each other.
However, `a_1` depends on `a_0` through the Poseidon hash algorithm. 

> Due to Poseidon design, it's possible to [attack](https://github.com/Rate-Limiting-Nullifier/rln-circuits/pull/7#issuecomment-1416085627) the protocol. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Due to the design of Poseidon, it is possible to [attack](https://github.com/Rate-Limiting-Nullifier/rln-circuits/pull/7#issuecomment-1416085627) the protocol. 
```

> Due to the design of Poseidon, it is possible to [attack](https://github.com/Rate-Limiting-Nullifier/rln-circuits/pull/7#issuecomment-1416085627) the protocol.  

Reviewer: FYI: For promoting to `draft` state, the attack should be described in the *Security Considerations* section of this document. The discussion may be linked as an additional (informational) reference.

(This is not a blocker for this PR; future work.)
